.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

## Thank you for your contribution!

We appreciate the time and effort you've put into this pull request.
To help us review it efficiently, please ensure you've gone through the following checklist:

### Submission Checklist 📝
- [ ] I have updated existing examples or added new ones (if applicable).
- [ ] I have used `cargo xtask fmt-packages` command to ensure that all changed code is formatted correctly.
- [ ] My changes were added to the [`CHANGELOG.md`](https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-hal/blob/main/esp-hal/CHANGELOG.md) in the **_proper_** section.
- [ ] My changes are in accordance to the [esp-rs API guidelines](https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-hal/blob/main/documentation/API-GUIDELINES.md)

#### Extra:
- [ ] I have read the [CONTRIBUTING.md guide](https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-hal/blob/main/documentation/CONTRIBUTING.md) and followed its instructions.

### Pull Request Details 📖

#### Description
Please provide a clear and concise description of your changes, including the motivation behind these changes. The context is crucial for the reviewers.

#### Testing
Describe how you tested your changes.

Commit message:

Rework hal initialization (#1970)
* Rework hal initialization

* Turn sw interrupt control into a virtual peripheral

* Return a tuple instead of a named struct

* Fix docs

* Remove SystemClockControl

* Move software interrupts under interrupt

* Re-document what's left in system

* Update time docs

* Update sw int docs

* Introduce Config

* Fix tests

* Remove redundant inits

* Doc

* Clean up examples&tests

* Update tests

* Add changelog entry

* Start migration guide

* Restore some convenience-imports

* Remove Config from prelude

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

## Thank you for your contribution!

We appreciate the time and effort you've put into this pull request.
To help us review it efficiently, please ensure you've gone through the following checklist:

### Submission Checklist 📝
- [ ] I have updated existing examples or added new ones (if applicable).
- [ ] I have used `cargo xtask fmt-packages` command to ensure that all changed code is formatted correctly.
- [ ] My changes were added to the [`CHANGELOG.md`](https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-hal/blob/main/esp-hal/CHANGELOG.md) in the **_proper_** section.
- [ ] I have added necessary changes to user code to the [Migration Guide](https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-hal/blob/main/esp-hal/MIGRATING-0.21.md).
- [ ] My changes are in accordance to the [esp-rs API guidelines](https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-hal/blob/main/documentation/API-GUIDELINES.md)

#### Extra:
- [ ] I have read the [CONTRIBUTING.md guide](https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-hal/blob/main/documentation/CONTRIBUTING.md) and followed its instructions.

### Pull Request Details 📖

#### Description
Please provide a clear and concise description of your changes, including the motivation behind these changes. The context is crucial for the reviewers.

#### Testing
Describe how you tested your changes.
